[docs][ybm] Federated authentication (#19973)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-cloud/managed-security/managed-authentication.md

To manage the social logins available to your account users, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, then click **Edit Configuration** to display the **Login Methods** dialog.
1. Enable the social logins you want to use.
1. Click **Save Changes**.

If you revoke a social login that is already in use, users using that social login can either [reset their password](#reset-your-password) to configure email-based login, or sign in using a different social login. The social account must be associated with the same email address.

## Federated authentication

Using federated authentication, you can use an IdP to manage access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

Note that after federated authentication is enabled, only Admin users can sign in using email-based login.

Currently only the Azure Active Directory (AAD) IdP and the OIDC protocol are supported.

### Prerequisites

Before configuring federated authentication, keep in mind the following:

- Be sure to allow popups from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.

> - Use your own account to test the connection.

Reviewer: Use your own AAD account?

#### AAD prerequisites

> To use AAD for your IdP, you need to register an application in the Azure portal so the Microsoft identity platform can provide authentication and authorization services for your application. The sign-in audience for the application should be **Accounts in any organizational directory** (Multitenant).

Reviewer: May be AAD App creation screenshot with "multitenant" option selected would help here.

In addition, you need the following to configure federated authenticaion using AAD:

- Client ID of the application you registered.
- Client secret of the application. Refer to [Create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-client-secret) in the Microsoft documentation.

For more information, refer to [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app) in the Microsoft documentation.

### Configure

To configure federated authentication, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, then click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Enter your AAD application client ID and secret.
1. Click **Enable**.

> You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection.

Reviewer: You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. Once test connection is successful, FedAuth will be enabled.

## Federated authentication

Using federated authentication, you can use an IdP to manage access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

Note that after federated authentication is enabled, only Admin users can sign in using email-based login.

Currently only the Azure Active Directory (AAD) IdP and the OIDC protocol are supported.

### Prerequisites

Before configuring federated authentication, keep in mind the following:

- Be sure to allow popups from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.
- Use your own AAD account to test the connection.

#### AAD prerequisites

To use AAD for your IdP, you need to register an application in the Azure portal so the Microsoft identity platform can provide authentication and authorization services for your application. The sign-in audience for the application should be **Accounts in any organizational directory** (Multitenant).

![Azure account types](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication-azure-account-types.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: We need to provide the Redirect URI as well right @jagdish-yb ?

Reviewer: Yes, thanks @atharva-yb for catching this!
Could you please share the prod okta redirect URL with @ddhodge.
May be a screenshot of full configs will help.

---
title: Manage account authentication
headertitle: Manage account authentication
linkTitle: Authentication
description: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication.
headcontent: Use social logins and identity providers to manage authentication
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-cloud:
    identifier: managed-authentication
    parent: managed-security
    weight: 300
type: docs
rightNav:
  hideH4: true
---

In addition to email-based accounts, you can use social logins or federated authentication via an external identity provider (IdP) to provide access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

The **Authentication** tab displays options for configuring social logins and federated authentication.

![Authentication page](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication.png)

## Social logins

The available social logins include Google, GitHub, and LinkedIn. All three are enabled by default.

To manage the social logins available to your account users, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, then click **Edit Configuration** to display the **Login Methods** dialog.
1. Enable the social logins you want to use.
1. Click **Save Changes**.

> If you revoke a social login that is already in use, users using that social login can either [reset their password](#reset-your-password) to configure email-based login, or sign in using a different social login. The social account must be associated with the same email address.

Reviewer 3: reset-your-password is a broken link.

## Federated authentication

Using federated authentication, you can use an IdP to manage access to your YugabyteDB Managed account.

Note that after federated authentication is enabled, only Admin users can sign in using email-based login.

Currently only the Azure Active Directory (AAD) IdP and the OIDC protocol are supported.

### Prerequisites

Before configuring federated authentication, keep in mind the following:

> - Be sure to allow popups from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Be sure to allow pop-ups from your IdP. While configuring federated authentication, the provider needs to confirm your identity in a new window.
```

    ![Azure account types](/images/yb-cloud/managed-authentication-azure-account-types.png)

- Set the Redirect URI platform to Web, and the URI to `https://yugabyte-cloud.okta.com/oauth2/v1/authorize/callback`.

For more information, refer to [Register an application with the Microsoft identity platform](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app) in the Microsoft documentation.

In addition, to configure AAD federated authentication in YugabyteDB Managed, you need the following:

- Client ID of the application you registered.
- Client secret of the application.

Refer to [Create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-client-secret) in the Microsoft documentation.

### Configure

To configure federated authentication, do the following:

1. Navigate to **Security > Access Control > Authentication**, then click **Enable Federated Authentication** to display the **Enable Federated Authentication** dialog.
1. Enter your AAD application client ID and secret.
1. Click **Enable**.

> You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. Once test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You are redirected to sign in to your IdP to test the connection. Once test connection is successful, federated authentication is enabled.
```
